# Connections

Most of the protocols you use with curl speak TCP. With TCP, a client such as
curl must first figure out the IP address(es) of the host you want to
communicate with, then connect to it. "Connecting to it" means performing a
TCP protocol handshake.

For the typical command line that operates on a URL those are details that
are taken care of under the hood which you can mostly ignore. But at times
you might find yourself wanting to tweak the specificsâ€¦

## Name resolve tricks

### Edit the hosts file

Maybe you have your command line `curl http://example.com` and just want that
to instead connect to your local server instead of the actual live server.

You can normally and easily do that by editing your `hosts` file (`/etc/hosts`
on Linux and Unix systems) and adding, for example, `127.0.0.1 example.com` to
redirect the host to your localhost. But this edit requires admin access and it
has the downside that it affects all other applications at the same time, and
more.

### Change the Host: header

The `Host:` header is the normal way an HTTP client tells the HTTP server which
server it speaks to, as typically an HTTP server serves many different names
using the same software instance.

So, by passing in a custom modified `Host:` header you can usually have the
server respond with the contents of the site even when you didn't actually
connect to that host name.

For example, you run a test instance of your main site `www.example.com` on
your local machine and you want to have curl ask for the index html:

    curl -H "Host: www.example.com" http://localhost/

When setting a custom `Host:` header and using cookies, curl will extract the
custom name and use that as host when matching cookies to send off.

The `Host:` header is not enough when communicating with an HTTPS server. With
HTTPS there's a separate extension field in the TLS protocol called SNI
(Server Name Indication) that lets the client tell the server the name of the
server it wants to talk to. curl will only extract the SNI name to send from
the given URL.

### Provide a custom IP address for a name

Doing the hosts edit operation virtually, but directly with the curl command
line without having to edit any system files, you can force feed curl what IP
address it should use for a given name. Do you know better than the name resolver
where curl should go? Then you can! If you want to redirect port 80
access for `example.com` to instead reach your localhost:

    curl --resolve example.com:80:127.0.0.1 http://example.com/

You can even specify multiple `--resolve` switches to provide multiple
redirects of this sort, which can be handy if the URL you work with uses HTTP
redirects or if you just want to have your command line work with multiple
URLs.

`--resolve` inserts the address into curl's DNS cache, so it will effectively
make curl believe that's the address it got when it resolved the name.

When talking HTTPS, this will send SNI for the name in the URL and curl will
verify the server to make sure it serves for the name in the URL.

### Provide a replacement name

As a close relative to the `--resolve` option, the `--connect-to` option
provides a minor variation. It allows you to specify a replacement name and
port number for curl to use under the hood when a specific name and port
number is used to connect.

For example, suppose you have a single site called `www.example.com` that in turn
is actually served by three different individual HTTP servers: load1, load2
and load3, for load balancing purposes. In a typical normal procedure, curl
resolves the main site and gets to speak to one of the load balanced servers
(as it gets a list back and just picks one of them) and all is well. If you
want to send a test request to one specific server out of the load balanced
set (`load1.example.com` for example) you can instruct curl to do that.

You *can* still use `--resolve` to accomplish this if you know the specific IP
address of load1. But without having to first resolve and fix the IP address
separately, you can tell curl:

    curl --connect-to www.example.com:80:load1.example.com:80 http://www.example.com

It redirects from a SOURCE NAME + SOURCE PORT to a DESTINATION NAME +
DESTINATION PORT. curl will then resolve the `load1.example.com` name and
connect, but in all other ways still assume it is talking to
`www.example.com`.

### Name resolve tricks with c-ares

As should be detailed elsewhere in this book, curl can get built with several
different name resolving backends. One of those backends is powered by the
c-ares library and when curl is built to use c-ares, it gets a few extra super
powers that curl built to use other name resolve backends don't get. Namely
the ability to more specificly instruct what DNS servers to use and how that
DNS traffic is using the network.

With `--dns-servers`, you can specify exactly which DNS server curl should use
instead of the default one. This lets you run your own experiental server that
answers differently, or just use a backup one if your regular one seems
unreliable or dead.

With `--dns-ipv4-addr` and `--dns-ipv6-addr` you ask curl to "bind" its local
end of the DNS communication to a specific IP address and with
`--dns-interface` you can instruct curl to use a specific network interface to
send its DNS requests over.

These `--dns-*` options are of course very specific and are only meant for
those of you very aware of what you want and what these options do. But then
they offer very customizable DNS name resolve operations.

## Connection timeout

curl typically makes a TCP connection to the specific host as an initial part
of its network transfer. This TCP connection can of course fail or sometimes
be very slow depending on all sorts of shaky network conditions or perhaps
even faulty remote servers.

To reduce the impact on your scripts or other use, you can set a maximum time
to curl for which it will allow the connect attempt to go on. With
`--connnect-timeout` you simply tell curl the maximum time to allow for this,
and if curl hasn't made it connect in that time it returns a failure.

The connection timeout is only limiting the time curl is allowed to spend up
until the moment it connects, so once the TCP connection has been established
it can then again take longer time. See the [Timeouts](usingcurl-timeouts.md)
section for more on generic curl timeouts.

If you specify a low timeout, you effectively disable curl's ability to
connect to remote servers, slow servers or servers you access over unreliable
networks.

The connection timeout can be specified as a decimal value for subsecond
precision. Allow 2781 milliseconds to be spent on trying to connect:

    curl --connnect-timeout 2.781 https://example.com/

## Network interface

On machines with multiple network interfaces that are connected to multiple
networks, there are siutuations where you can decide which network interface
you would prefer the outgoing network traffic to use. Or which originating IP
address (out of the multiple ones you have) to use in the communication.

Tell curl which network interface, which IP address or even host name that you
would like to "bind" your local end of the communication to, with the
`--interface` option:

    curl --interface eth1 https://www.example.com/

    curl --interface 192.168.0.2 https://www.example.com/

    curl --interface machine2 https://www.example.com/

## Local port number

A TCP connection is created betweeen an IP address and a port number in the
local end and an IP address and a port number in the remote end. The remote
port number can be specified in the URL and usually helps identify which
service you are targetting.

The local port number is usually just randomly assigne to your TCP connection
by the network stack and you normally don't have to bother yourself with
thinking about that much further. However, in some circumstances you find
yourself behind network equipment, firewalls or similar setups that put
restrictions on what source port numbers that can be allowed to set up the
outgoing connections.

For such situations and others, you can specify which local ports curl should
bind the the connection to. You can specify a single port number to use, or a
range of ports, and we always recommend using a range because ports are scarce
resources and the exact one you want may already be in use. If you ask for a
local port number (range) that curl can't fulfill for you, it will exit with a
failure.

Also, on most operating systems you cannot bind to port numbers below 1024
without having a higher priviledge level (root) and we generally advice
against running curl as root if you can avoid it.

Ask curl to use a local port number between 4000 and 4200 when getting this
HTTPS page:

    curl --local-port 4000-4200 https://example.com/

## Keep alive

TCP connections can be totally without traffic in any diection when they are
not used. A totally idle connection can therefore not be clearly separated
from a connection that has gone completely stale because of network or server
issues.

At the same time, lots of network equipments such as firewalls or NATs are
these days keeping track of TCP connections so that they can translate
adddresses, block "wrong" incoming packets and more. These devices often count
completely idle connections as dead after N minutes, where N of course varies
between device to device but at times is as short as 10 minutes or even less.

One way to help avoid getting a really slow connection (or an idle one) to get
treated as dead and wrongly killed, is to make sure TCP keep alive is
used. TCP keepalive is a feature in the TCP protocol that makes it send what
is basically "ping frames" back and forth when it would otherwise be totally
idle. It helps idle connections to detect breakage even when no traffic is
flying over it and it helps middle boxes not consider the connection dead.

curl uses TCP keepalive by default for the reasons mention here. But there
might be times when you want to *disable* keepalives or you may want to change
the interval between the TCP "pings" (curl defaults to 60 seconds). You can
switch off keepalives with:

    curl --no-keepalive https://example.com/

or change the interval to 5 minutes (300 seconds) with:

    curl --keepalive-time 300 https://example.com/
